# New_york_Uber_data_analysis

Introduction
New York City (NYC) is the most populous city in the United States. It is also the most densely populated major city in the United States. Situated on one of the world's largest natural harbors, New York City consists of five boroughs. The five boroughs: Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan, Bronx, and Staten Island { were consolidated into a single city in 1898.

The objective of this project is to understand the traffic in different boroughs of New York City and to try and categorise the various zones within various boroughs as being: office destinations, residential destination, popular brunch destination or party destination according to it's popularity given the time-range and the day of the week.

I have used data generated by Uber, an online transportation network company. "In California, Uber is a public utility, and operates under the jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission. California Public Utilities Commission regulates public utilities within its jurisdiction, including by setting rates for transportation services provided by Uber’s “partner drivers.” which is now being a crucial part in commute along side the yellow cabs of New York city.

The directory downloaded contains data on over 4.5 million Uber pickups in New York City from April to September 2014, and 14.3 million more Uber pickups from January to June 2015. I have used R to extract knowledge and mine the dataset.

Data
The dataset downloaded contains, roughly into different groups of files:

Uber trip data from 2014 (April - September), separated by month, with location infor- mation (longitude - latitude values)
Uber trip data from 2015 (January - June), with less fine-grained location information
Non-Uber FHV (For-Hire Vehicle) trips. The trip information varies by company, but can include day of trip, time of trip, pickup location, driver's for-hire license number, and vehicle's for-hire license number.
Aggregate ride and vehicle statistics for all FHV companies (and, occasionally, for taxi companies)
However this project used two groups of files that was generated by Uber:

Uber trip data from 2014 (April - September)
Uber trip data from 2015 (January - June)
Uber trip data from 2014

The plots generated represent different analysis that is done on the data set available. Where each plot does an emphasis on various aspect of data.

